Hi and welcome back.
And in this lecture we're going to talk about the colour pick at all.
It is an incredibly useful tool that allows us to look at an image that we've currently got on the screen
and pick certain colours that are already there.
And this is incredibly useful again for consistency amongst anything else.
So your picking colours that are already existing in front of you.
So the first thing we need to do of course is have an image.
Some women go to file new and Im going to generate my own 32 by 32 image.
I'm going to zoom all the way in.
I want to go ahead and grab the paint brush tool and I'm going to open up just a basic palette and which
ones.
Yeah.
But the basic palette there's absolutely fine.
That's go to the colour selector under the foreground and background colours.
And I'm going to lay down just a bit of red a bit of yellow.
And why not a bit of blue as well.
There we go.
So we've got three separate colours here but you can see as they're blended together you've got a whole
new gamut a whole new variety of colours as they've blended across in some of those you might like.
And you can go ahead and pick those individual colours and use them yourself.
In order to get to the colour pick at all you can go to the tool box itself.
It looks like a little pet a little gropper.
We can see that a shortcut key is out.
And in the Tools menu itself it is separate from most of the other tools it's just in the Tools menu
under colour picker.
And we can see the shortcut key once again is Oh now we go across to the tool options we see there are
several ways in which we can select our particular colour.
We'll start at the top and just work our way down.
If you put a tick in sample average what it will do based upon the current layer that selected it will
do an average of a radius of three pixel So if we're smack bang in the middle of this red area it's
going to be red.
However as we come across and you can see the boundary itself is picking an average of all of the pixels
that in that border and as we move Venturer all the way into the yellow areas almost all yellow as we
go across into the blue you can see it changes accordingly as we move.
The drop at all.
Now I'm clicking and holding whilst I'm doing this if I just let go.
That's it.
That's that colour selected.
And if we look a little further down we can see that the pink married is set to foreground colour and
that's what we've done.
We've set the foreground colour at this point.
It's yellow.
If I hover somewhere between the border of red and yellow I'm going to get an orange.
Now if I turn off sample average what I will then see is that I can select individual pixels so if I
wanted to select that particular pixel there I can then go use any of the other brush tools and colour
in using that new colour that I have selected.
Back to the drop at all or the colour select or sample merge.
Now we're going to need another layer to demonstrate that if we go ahead and create a new layer just
call it layer for the moment that's absolutely fine with me.
I'm going to go ahead and with the pencil tool and I'm going to turn the size of that pencil tool all
the way down and I'm going to use a different colour.
This time I'm going to use magenta quite a horrible colour.
There we go.
So only very bright anyway.
So now that I've laid down this lay here if I use the colour picker tool again and go back to tool options
we can see a sample merge with it off.
It's currently selected blacking it probably thinking well hang on a minute.
There isn't any black in any of this scene.
Well there's the transparency on the layer that we currently have active and that will come across as
black.
If you go ahead and click on it if I manage to click on the magenta itself it will select the magenta
anywhere else at the moment will select black.
Now that is because we've got the active layer as this squiggle This magenta squiggle with sample merged
to what guimpe will do is it will flatten everything down into one image when it comes to selecting
So now I can still select that magenta if I wanted to but if I go onto the yellow even though we're
not on that layer it will be able to select it which is incredibly useful if youre working across an
image you dont have want to have to switch layers.
Now going down to the pick mode itself at the moment every time weve been clicking weve been selecting
the foreground colour we can change this to background colour if we want.
So as we can see that I'm going to turn back on sample merged for the moment.
So there we go we can select the foreground or background colour and you can alternate those simply
by holding down the control key and it will switch between foreground and background colour.
Now pick only the reason why I've skipped over that is because we cant really use pick only until we've
put the use info window.
So noticable put a tick in the U.S. Info window.
You can see there's a short key shift there.
Now pick only won't change the foreground or background colour but will enable you to get some information
about the colour you've just selected.
It's hexadecimal that may be useful for you and it's r.g. be raw values.
So if I go ahead and go to sample mode and then click we can see that we've got red green blue in and
out for 0 because that is completely transparent and there is no colour.
If I go ahead and click on the magenta we see that we got 100 percent of red or 2 5 5 100 percent blue
and 100 percent Alpha which means we've got four colour magento.
In this case with no transparency at all.
The final option there is to add to palettes.
Now we've already played with palettes themselves who got a pallets here but instead of destroying one
I'm going to create a new one a new pallets here I'm going to name that palettes or what shall we name
it tests so I can go ahead and ruin it if necessary.
Now what I can do is I can go back to the tool options and with it adding to pallets and sample most
turned on.
I can literally click and you can see I can build up a palette.
I'm going to get rid of the information window because it's just in the way at the moment I can build
up a palettes of colours based upon what I'm selecting and that can be incredibly useful.
If you're going into one image getting a palette from it's a selection of colours that works in that
one image and then using that power again in a future image and that will help you consistency across
multiple images.
Now one of the things to bear in mind is that you can use this colour.
Pick a tool straight away with any of the other brush tools by holding down.
Control.
So this is neat.
If I've got a brush tool let's say the paint brush tool and will make their little bigger maybe four
pixels so I'm colouring in here in red and I decide oh no I want the pink.
I hold down control I select and you can see that it's selected.
Pink has the foreground colour and I can start painting again and oh I want a yellow a hold down control.
I can select the yellow and start painting again so that can be a very quick way of colouring in an
area.
Now it must be said that it does remember the options that you've had previously.
So if I go back to my colour picture and look at the tool options.
Now we've got sample merge turn up which is very useful.
While working on several layers.
However sample average of we've also got that turned on let's turn that up.
So the radius is quite large.
Now if I'm using the paint brush on painting in and then I go and select another area you can see it's
got the half Ridge boundary turned on as well and that can be a little bit confusing if you're trying
to colour something in and it's got this boundary on and you don't want it you want to be more precise
you going to have to go back to the.
Pick a tool and turn that off.
And there we go.
That pretty much sums out how to select existing colours that are on the screen.
This is just a quick information lecture.
More than anything else because you're now going to be able to use this in every future challenge that
you come across and it's going to save you a lot of time coming in and out of picking various colours
especially once you've got the majority of them already down on your canvas.
So I hope you found me useful and I will see you guys in the next lecture.